Objective
......

The objective of a test plan for site https://shop.demoqa.com/ is to ensure that the site is functioning correctly and meeting the needs of its users. 

We focus on:

Functionality testing: To ensure that all functions of the e-commerce site are working as expected, 
including product browsing, adding products to the cart, completing orders, and processing payments.

Usability testing: To assess the ease of use and user experience of the e-commerce site. 
This could involve testing the site's navigation, search functionality, and checkout process to ensure they are intuitive and user-friendly.

Compatibility testing: To check that the e-commerce site is compatible with different browsers, 
operating systems, and devices, and that it can display correctly on different screen sizes.

Performance testing: To test the speed and performance of the e-commerce site, including page load times, 
checkout times, and response times for different user actions.

Esspecially focusing on Smoke Testing -  is to verify that the critical features of the e-commerce site are working as expected.


Scope
.......

Functionality: 
I should include a thorough evaluation of the site's core functionality, such as browsing and searching for products, adding products to the cart, 
completing the checkout process, and processing payments. This could include testing different scenarios, 
such as adding products to the cart and then abandoning the cart, or entering incorrect information during checkout.


Usability: 
I should evaluate the ease of use and user experience of the https://shop.demoqa.com/ site. This could include testing the site's navigation, search functionality, 
and checkout process to ensure they are intuitive and user-friendly. The plan should also consider testing
the site's mobile responsiveness and accessibility features.
Site navigation
Product browsing
Adding a product to the cart
Checkout process
Mobile responsiveness


Performance:
Here I should evaluate the performance of the e-commerce site under different conditions, such as testing page load times, 
checkout times, and response times for different user actions.

Approach
.........

I prioritize test cases with the test scenarios identified, the test cases based on their impact and importance. 
This will ensure that critical areas are tested first and any major issues are identified.
I will use manual and auto testing in the proces and share bug raports in order : low, medium, high, critical.

Roles and Responsibilities
.......

I Admir Arap QA am responsible for developing a testing plan that outlines the testing approach, 
the scope of the testing, and the testing methodologies that will be used.  Also I am  responsible for developing test cases that cover 
all the functional and non-functional requirements of the system and create test cases, inputs, and outputs.

As QA tester on this project I will executing the test cases, documenting the results, and reporting any defects. 
Which will ensure that all test cases are executed as per the test plan and report any defects to the development team.
I will track and manage the defects that are reported during testing. This is the way that all defects are documented and tracked until they are resolved.


I will also create some Test Automation develop and maintain automated test scripts that can be used to execute test cases. 
Using Selenium web driver and PyTest.


Environment
........

I will test site https://shop.demoqa.com/
Using Desktop PC 
AMD Ryzen 5 2400G with Radeon Vega Graphics 3.60 GHz
32,0 GB 
64-bit operating system, x64-based processor
Windows 10 Pro
Ethernet and WI FI conection.
Browsers: Chrome, Firefox, Edge.
Android Studio Emulators for Mobile devices.


Test Automation
.......

For execution and replicate test cases you will need :
Selenium WebDriver, Chrome WebDriver, pip, and pytest on a Windows machine:

Install Python: First, download and install the latest version of Python from the official Python website: https://www.python.org/downloads/

Install pip: After installing Python, pip should be available automatically. If not, you can install pip by following the instructions on this page: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/

Install Selenium WebDriver: Use pip to install the Selenium WebDriver for Python. Open a command prompt and run the following command:

pip install selenium

Download Chrome WebDriver: Download the latest version of the Chrome WebDriver executable for your operating system from this page: https://chromedriver.chromium.org/downloads

Install Chrome WebDriver: Extract the downloaded Chrome WebDriver executable and add it to your system's PATH environment variable. This will enable you to run the WebDriver from any directory.

Install Pytest: Use pip to install Pytest. Open a command prompt and run the following command:

pip install pytest

You should now have Selenium WebDriver, Chrome WebDriver, pip, and Pytest installed on your Windows machine. 

































